So, um, tell me about this carnivore diet.
Cause I had Sean Baker in here and he talked to me about it,
but he doesn't have any science, you know, there's no,
like he doesn't have any like real tests or any long-term studies or anything
like that. And you know, I, I, I'm a person that believes in balance and I, I,
I think that you need phytonutrients, you need plant fiber.
I think there's a lot of healthy stuff that you get from plants. Um,
I'm big believer in eating meat though, but all meat, you guys do an all meat.
I think gonna find it. I think there's some holes one at a time. Yeah.
I think there's some, I think there's some holes in every diet, right?
I think when you go and you make the decision to only eat meat, then uh,
some rational thought should come into your head.
Maybe when I switch all the way to just meet all the time,
maybe there's a possibility I'm going to eat too much meat.
And so maybe that would make sense to bring in some fruit and bring in some
vegetables, just so you're not eating too much meat for the simple reason,
vegetables have been shown and, and there's, you know,
you can get a study to show you anything. Uh, but there's study a study.
That's been done on 200,000 people that went on for 14 years and they studied,
uh, vegetables.
They study every type of vegetable and they found that they were more neutral
than they were harmful or good for you. They found that fruit was a little bit,
uh, better for you. And again, you can have any study say, wait a minute.
What is this study?
It's called a pure study. Wait a minute.
They said, vegetables are neutral. What does that mean?
They're neutral. They're just really help you that much.
They weren't necessarily great. And they weren't necessarily bad. I.
Don't know what the Harrison to.
What the, I don't know what their standard was for what they were looking for.
Exactly. But the main thing they were looking for was, uh,
it being protective in terms of your heart. That was their main,
the main thing they were looking at.
So they found out that saturated fat is protective of your heart.
They found out that cholesterol is actually protective of your heart.
They found out that salt is PR. Now it's all like, you know,
without you can't take in tons and tons of salt, because then something's gonna.
Kill you. If you eat a pound of salt, you're dead, you know, assaults.
One of those things it's really good for you.
It's an essential mineral to a certain extent, but if you take too much.
So I think any of these things can be done too far.
I jumped on a carnivore diet just to give it a shot and to see exactly what it
was about.
Because you talked to Sean, Sean Baker. Yeah, he.
Was, he was on your podcast. I got inspired to do it. He was already doing it.
So I was like, all right, let me try it out. I tried it out, got leaner,
felt better. And I was like, this is pretty.
Cool. And why'd you start it.
So I was doing a ketogenic diet for over a year and lost a lot of weight on that
was doing great feeling.
Really good, man. You look and healthy.
I appreciate it. I still have.
I still have a long way to go. In my opinion, you know, I,
this is a work in progress, but, um, the reason I did it was really simple.
It's a dietary intervention. Um, I went through sobriety as you know,
I was a drug addict and an alcoholic for about six years.
And when I went through, um, sobriety, that's, uh,
that's an intervention like there it's, there's something wrong,
there's a problem. We need to fix it.
So my problem now was arthritis and I needed something that was like an
intervention that would get me from, you know, uh,
being arthritic and in pain and not being able to lift, to being able to lift.
And so there, some of this might be a placebo effect of me going like, well,
I'm on this diet and I feel great and whatever. And so I'm,
I'm now lifting more. Um,
some of it may be a placebo effect and that's okay with me if it is,
but I feel excellent on this diet.
And I think the reason is I'm getting a lot more protein in,
I wasn't getting enough protein on keto because I was listening to everybody
say, well, it'll knock you out of ketosis if you eat too much protein.
And that's what I constantly was being told, but I wasn't muscular.
I didn't have, I wasn't being able to put on muscle.
Well, you, you were constantly testing your, um, blood levels. Were you?
We using a meter? Yeah. Every day, about three or four times.
Like I'm crazy with it because you're out of ketosis.
The things that would knock me out of ketosis were just like mainly anything
with carbohydrates. Um,
I wasn't really having too much of a problem with protein because I wasn't
eating a lot of protein, but, um, there was,
there were things that if I cheated on my diet, for example, of course,
that would usually kick me out of ketosis.
But then I also got to a point where you become so fat adapted that you become
what we like to call metabolically flexible,
metabolic flexibility just means you can switch from being a fat burner.
You know, I'm mostly a fat burner for the most part, cause I'm eating high fat.
But then if I do eat something with sugar in it,
it doesn't really affect me that much because I,
because I'm used to it 90%, yeah.
Going with the fat so I can kind of move back and forth between those two
things. But what I realized on the carnivore diet,
when I switched over to carnivore the whole time I was thinking, man,
if I could just have an apple,
I would feel like I would feel so much better because just eating the steak,
it's killing me and it's driving me crazy. I was a killing you just mentally.
I wasn't ready for it. I wasn't tough enough to just say, okay,
I'll just have steak on a plate.
Well, you automatically use intermittent fasting almost cause you're like,
you don't always have a hamburger in your pocket or you don't always run through
in and out burger or whatever it might be. But yeah,
you end up utilizing some intermittent fasting and you're like, man.
The only food I have to eat is a hamburger or a steak.
That's where I was at. And it was hamburger or steak. And I'm like, well,
how about an apple? So I talked to our friend, Stan efforting,
who's a bodybuilder and he's huge jacked. And he's also a powerlifter and.
Soup the one years old too. And.
Jack super one of the smartest guys. I know.
And he sent me that study that I sent to you with the, about the fruit.
And I don't know if you watched that or not,
but basically they did a large scale study with fruit and they found out that
the fruit actually would drive blood glucose down instead of dry,
instead of bringing it up when taken with protein, like red meat.
And so I'm like looking at this going like, well,
it's not going to drive my glucose up. I mean,
that'd be the one thing I'm concerned with, why not have some fruit?
And so then I'm talking with Stan about it. He was saying like,
I think fruit is totally fine. And I think you can have as much as you want.
And so I sort of switched over. It's crazy though, because.
That's that's I.
Mean, your body, how did, how was your body, not your.
Useless level? They've done studies where they've,
where they've studied fruit toast.
So like everybody thinks fruit toast is really bad.
But they think that because of high fructose corn syrup and fructose.
Is really bad when it's outside of fruit. Right. But for some reason, um,
fruit fruit has these phytonutrients. It has fiber in it.
And those things sort of like protect you from what's going on in the sugar.
They actually, th there's phytonutrients in fruit, like say an apple,
there's certain phytonutrients in there that won't allow your small intestine to
like absorb the fat. And so it,
it actually helps you to digest things like red meat that have high fat.
There's yeah.
There's co-factors and fruit that help you digest the sugars in them.
I'm not sure about, I'm not a doctor, I'm a filmmaker. So I started,
I'm basically,
I'm asked a lot of questions and a lot of people and start figuring things out
and then it's trial and error. Um,
right now I'm in a trial trial and error part and it seems like it's been
working pretty good. So now are you.
Getting your blood work done?
Yes. Um, just got my blood work done, um,
from last month and it, uh,
everything improved from Quito to carnivore.
I didn't really have any cholesterol issues. Um,
I didn't have any the, uh, what was it? What were my issues?
We we've had our blood work done probably four or five times in the last year or
so I would say. Yeah. And, uh, you know, not all the numbers are, are great,
but for the most part it's been pretty healthy. The cholesterol has been good.
The triglycerides have been good. Um, this doesn't show up in your blood, uh,
just, it's not in the hot, not in the high range of, you know, of what,
what it shows you on the, uh, on the sheet.
And then we also had other people for what, uh, oh,
in terms of like the triglycerides and the, the cholesterol and stuff like that,
we'll be talking about, well.
Like what you said, and what's not good. No, I'm just saying.
Everything's, everything's been pretty good. Like this last time I did have my,
um, uh, I had one of my markers. Okay.
We both had high C-reactive protein and we don't, we're not sure why.
So that's something that we have to like look into what is C-reactive protein,
it's a marker for inflammation. And my C-reactive specifically of the heart.
Yeah. My C-reactive protein. This mine was really high on keto,
but then after I went keto to carnivores, it came way, way down. So I don't,
I don't know where it is right now.
So, uh, had a really high mine registered really high at a nowhere.
It was totally fine with all the blood work I've had done.
And the last one I had done it, skyrocketed people were saying, well,
maybe it's because you worked out beforehand or.
You'd have to be what you consistent in when you ate,
when you got your test done, were you guys on a fast.
Beforehand? So I might've it up.
Oh, you it up for sure. Yeah.
You train test yourself after the way you train, you train like a thing.
Yeah. The blood work it's, it's, you know,
it's a snapshot in time and we hear that a lot.
And I think that that's important to realize and recognize that, um, it's just,
you know, this one snapshot in time and we constantly change all the time. So.
Particularly important with dietary cholesterol, with cholesterol in the blood,
the way it registers, if you have a big, you know, fat filled meal, right.
And then go and get a blood test versus you fasting it's like,
how was your body absorbing? This is, what's really an important,
how's your body absorbing these essential nutrients, nutrients, not like what,
what happens right after you eat,
because your body knows what to do with that stuff.
My cholesterol was one 90, which is good. I mean, I want it,
they want it to be under 200,
but I thought it was really interesting was my HDL went way up from, uh,
by like 60 points went up, uh, going from Quito to carnivore. Well.
Are you eating a lot of fatty cuts? Like ribbons.
Mostly rib-eyes yeah.
I like a lot of dietary fat. I like a lot of like meat fats.
I think there's a certain point. Right? Cause, um, I, I don't know before,
when I was doing the ketogenic diet, um,
the fat is kind of free flowing because, uh,
you make your Bulletproof coffees and you just dump it fat and everything.
You're putting butter on everything. Right. But when you have,
when you have a steak, what's really nice about having a steak.
Is your rate about 65 to 75% fat already?
Like just kind of born out of the.
Box. Yeah. You're eating corn, fed beef is that.
I eat both. Um, I think that, um, the difference between the grass fed and the,
and the grain Fred,
there really isn't a substantial amount of proof of how much better that is.
I do know that grass fed beef has five times the amount of omega-3.
So you always want to pick grass fed beef when you can,
but a lot of people can't afford it. And also, uh, the, for me,
the best meat is at Costco.
That's the best tasting meat that you're going to find. I've been everywhere.
Why is Costco better? It just.
Tastes the best around for the best. They have the best meat. They.
Some like expensive butcher shop. It's corn.
Fed. I think Costco, Costco is all organic now, too.
That's a weird word though. That word is so loosely defined as organic. Well,
we didn't spray it with a chemical right before he gave it to you.
So there is a, um, what is exactly organic.
You have to pay to get organic status too. That's a weird thing. You know,
you have to pay a lot of money. Cause I remember, um,
talking to Bulletproof and the guy was telling me, like, you have to, uh,
to Dave Asprey is telling me you have to pay money to get, uh,
recognized as being organic. So.
Whatever that guy says, fat.
Greatest. Sure. I know, but I'm saying you have to pay to get it to be yeah.
I wonder if that's true. Yeah. I don't know if that's true. It is.
True. Is it.
Mia? Well, I mean,
I'm sure it costs money to get tested and to make sure that you're certified.
Inside something like that. You have to pay money for it.
I mean, there, there has to be some sort of a testing costs money. I mean,
but when you're looking at the standards like that, what does that mean?
It means no antibiotics, no added hormones. Right? Is that what it food?
It means no pesticides, right? Yeah. I mean,
excuse me for plants and vegetables and fruits and plants. Um, what,
the one thing that concerns me, um, with grass fed meat is that you're,
you're eating. Um, well you, you definitely get a more expensive cut,
but you're eating an animal that is eating what it's supposed to eat. You know,
when you're eating, like I've had Y goo beef and Colby beef, it's delicious.
It's awesome. But that thing's dead. That's a dying animal.
That's like eating a giant fat guy about to have a heart attack. I mean,
all that marbling, that's not supposed to happen. Like you shoot a bison,
like a free range, bison, you get a dark Ruby, red Hunka meat.
I mean, and that's all I can say.
I completely agree with you. Um, but there,
there isn't science to really support that eating a cow that was fed with soy or
corn is necessarily way worse. And so, um,
I might just be stupid for waiting for that to come out.
Hold on a second.
You just said that there's way more omega fatty acids and grass fed
beef. That's omega fatty acids are essential for brain development,
muscle development.
There's so there's so many benefits to ascend those essential fatty acids.
And if those are more present in grass fed meat,
wouldn't you just assume that grass fed meat is more nutritious?
Yeah. I w I would say that it has more, it has moral Meg has more omega three.
It might be more nutritious than in that, that particular, uh,
way that I say, like, you know, is the cost benefit. You know,
the other day I went and bought, um, grass fed meat from whole foods,
33 99, a pound for a filet, 1999,
a pound at Costco for a Flay. The Costco one is so much better.
The one from whole food was almost not edible like it did,
didn't it didn't taste good. It's real tough to meet. So, and so.
Top filet.
At whole foods, I don't know why they'd have crappy meat for some reason.
Grass fed stuff. Sometimes.
You get a sponsorship for Costco right before. No.
No, no, no. But what I'm saying is that,
um, I've,
I've gone to a lot of places to try to find what meat I thought tastes the
best then. Um, you know, so for me,
sometimes I have to like,
you have to eat a lot of meat and if it doesn't taste that good,
you're not going to get through it. So I prefer to have meat that tastes better.
I like 'em for grass fed meat.
I like to use grass fed beef patties,
cause they're a little fattier and it just tastes really,
those tastes are enemy, you know, but the grass fed steaks just,
they don't really taste as good. So I just kind of switched back and forth.
I think these are some.
Smaller issues. These aren't the main things that we're really trying to fight.
You know, my brother and I, we just, uh, took on to do another film and he,
you know, he and I are doing this one together on nutrition and we're just,
we're trying to find out some truths. I mean,
we're trying to find out about grass fed and organic and all these different
things. Uh,
but mainly we're just trying to figure out how the do we help fight obesity?
How do we help fight diabetes? How do we help people, uh,
gain control of their diet?
And I think that's really truly we're talking about is control.
And you look at it, something like a ketogenic diet, in my opinion,
it's one of the few diets that can really help people with control of their diet
because it can help break up the cravings. And that's really ultimately,
I think where our fight is,
it's against cravings of all these convenient foods that tastes so good. Well,
the crave interface all the time, refined carbohydrates and sugars.